#summary Add a new storage device.

== Add Storage Device ==

An API request must be of the following form:

{{{
 http://{url_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=addStorageDevice&parameters
}}}

Certain parameters are required while some are optional. As is standard in URLs, all parameters are separated using the ampersand (&) character. The list of parameters and their possible values are enumerated below.

The API defines a request using the following URL parameters:

 * name (required) - Name of the new storage device.
 * type (required) - Type of the new storage device.
 * baseUrl (required) - Base Url of the new storage device.
 * description (optional) - A brief description of the storage device.
 * basePath (optional) - Path within storage device which has to be used for storage.
 * user (optional) - User name required for authentication.
 * pw (optional) - Password required for authentication.
 * key (optional) - Key required for authentication.
 * active (optional) - Specifies whether device can be used or not. Default true.

== Output Formats ==

 * [#JSON_Output_Formats json] - Available

----
== Responses ==

Responses are returned in the format indicated by the output flag within the URL request's path.

 === JSON Output Formats ===
    * success (bool) - If response was successful or not. If it false see [http://code.google.com/p/biodiversity-imageserver/wiki/jsonErrorResponse JSON Error Response] for more details
    * processTime (float) - Time it takes to complete the request.
    * new_id (int) - Db id of the new storage device.

----
== Example Requests ==

1. This example request creates a new storage device.

{{{
 http://{path_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=addStorageDevice&name=NewStorageDevice&type=local&baseUrl={url_to_storage_device}
}}}

 Response:
{{{
{
    "success":true,
    "processTime":0.0085549354553223,
    "new_id":3
}
}}}