#summary Adds an image from the web to a storage device.

== Add Image FROM URL ==

An API request must be of the following form:

{{{
 http://{url_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=imageAddFromUrl&parameters
}}}

Certain parameters are required while some are optional. As is standard in URLs, all parameters are separated using the ampersand (&) character. The list of parameters and their possible values are enumerated below.

Allowed Image Types: JPG, PNG, GIF

The API defines a request using the following URL parameters:

 * url (required) — This is the URL of the images on the internet.
 * storageDeviceId (required) - This is id of the device where the image will be stored.
 * imagePath (optional) - This is the path on where the images will be stored on the storage device.
 * key (required) - This is the key needed to allow the user to upload iamges from the associated ip address.

== Output Formats ==

 * [#JSON_Output_Formats json] - Available

----
== Responses ==

Responses are returned in the format indicates by the output flag within the URL request's path.

 === JSON Output Formats ===
    * success (bool) - If response was successful or not. If it false see [http://code.google.com/p/biodiversity-imageserver/wiki/jsonErrorResponse JSON Error Response] for more details
    * processTime (float) - Time it takes to complete the request.
    * image_id (int) - Id of the image.

----
== Example Requests ==

1. This example request add image from URL.

{{{
 http://{path_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=imageAddFromUrl&url=http://www.gstatic.com/codesite/ph/images/defaultlogo.png&storageDeviceId=1&imagePath=/mypics&key={yourkey}
}}}

 Response:
{{{
{
    "success": true,
    "processTime": 0.07549786567688,
    "imageId" : 98
}
}}}