#summary Add a new event type.

== Add Event Type ==

An API request must be of the following form:

{{{
 http://{url_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=addEventType&parameters
}}}

Certain parameters are required while some are optional. As is standard in URLs, all parameters are separated using the ampersand (&) character. The list of parameters and their possible values are enumerated below.

The API defines a request using the following URL parameters:

 * authMode (optional) - Type of authentication to be used.
 * key (required) - Key required for authentication.

Note that key is required only if authMode is set to key. If authMode is not set then the user must be logged in to make this API request.

 * eventTypeId (required) - Db id of an event type.
 * title (required) - Title for the event type.
 * description (optional) - Brief description for event type.
   
Note that title is compulsory only if a valid eventTypeId is not provided. If a valid eventTypeId is provided, all other parameters become optional and will be used to update an existing event type.

== Output Formats ==

 * [#JSON_Output_Formats json] - Available

----
== Responses ==

Responses are returned in the format indicated by the output flag within the URL request's path.

 === JSON Output Formats ===
    * success (bool) - If response was successful or not. If it false see [http://code.google.com/p/biodiversity-imageserver/wiki/jsonErrorResponse JSON Error Response] for more details
    * processTime (float) - Time it takes to complete the request.
    * new_id (int) - Db id of the new event type.

----
== Example Requests ==

1. This example request creates a new event type.

{{{
 http://{path_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=addEventType&authMode=key&key={your_key}&title=NewEventType
}}}

 Response:
{{{
{
    "success":true,
    "processTime":0.00092816352844238,
    "new_id":3
}
}}}