#summary Display an image in the specified format.

== Get Image ==

An API request must be of the following form:

{{{
 http://{url_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=get_image&parameters
}}}

Certain parameters are required while some are optional. As is standard in URLs, all parameters are separated using the ampersand (&) character. The list of parameters and their possible values are enumerated below.

Allowed Image Types: JPG, PNG, GIF, TIFF

The API defines a request using the following URL parameters:

 * image_id (required) - Id of the image.
 * barcode (required) - Barcode of the image.
 * size (required) - Size of the returned image (s, m, l).
 * width (required) - Width of the returned image in pixels.
 * height (required) - Height of the returned image.
 * type (optional) - Type of the returned image.

*Note*
 * You must provide either image_id or barcode but not both.
 * You must provide either size or width and height but not both.

== Output Formats ==

 If the request is successful, the image will be returned with the required MIME type. If an error occurs, a JSON response will be returned indicating the error.

 * [#JSON_Output_Formats json] - Available

----
== Responses ==

Responses are returned in the format indicated by the output flag within the URL request's path.

 === JSON Output Formats ===
    * success (bool) - If response was successful or not. If it false see [http://code.google.com/p/biodiversity-imageserver/wiki/jsonErrorResponse JSON Error Response] for more details
    * processTime (float) - Time it takes to complete the request.

----
== Example Requests ==

1. This example request returns an image with the specified size..

{{{
 http://{path_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=get_image&image_id=18&size=s
}}}

 Response:

{image}