#summary List the events based on the filter.

== List Events ==

An API request must be of the following form:

{{{
 http://{url_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=eventList&parameters
}}}

Certain parameters are required while some are optional. As is standard in URLs, all parameters are separated using the ampersand (&) character. The list of parameters and their possible values are enumerated below.

The API defines a request using the following URL parameters:

 * start (optional) - Starting index of the results.
 * limit (optional) - Number of results to be returned.
 * eventId (optional) - Filter based on eventId.
 * eventTypeId (optional) - Filter based on eventTypeId.
 * geographyId (optional) - Filter based on geoId.
 * searchFormat (optional) - exact, left, right, both. Defaults to both.
 * value (optional) - Custom filter value for field specified.


== Output Formats ==

 * [#JSON_Output_Formats json] - Available

----
== Responses ==

Responses are returned in the format indicated by the output flag within the URL request's path.

 === JSON Output Formats ===
    * success (bool) - If response was successful or not. If it false see [http://code.google.com/p/biodiversity-imageserver/wiki/jsonErrorResponse JSON Error Response] for more details
    * processTime (float) - Time it takes to complete the request.
    * totalCount (int) - total count of records
    * results (object) - Array of item objects.

    * results (object)
        * eventId (int) - Db id of the event.
        * geographyId (int) - geoId of the event.
        * eventDate (datetime) - Date time format YYYY-MM-DD HH-MM-SS.
        * eventTypeId (int) - Db id of event type.
        * title (string) - Title of the event.
        * description (string) - Description of the event.

----
== Example Requests ==

1. This example request list all the events.

{{{
 http://{path_to_software}/api/api.php?cmd=eventList
}}}

 Response:
{{{
{
    "success": true,
    "processTime": 0.00039505958557129,
    "totalCount": 3,
    "results": [
        {
            "eventId": 3,
            "geographyId": 0,
            "eventDate": "2012-05-30 04:28:15",
            "eventTypeId": 1,
            "title": "{title}",
            "description": "{description}"
        }
    ]
}
}}}